<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" dir="ltr" class="client-nojs">
<head>
<meta charset="UTF-8">
<title>DeveloperWiki:Internal Projects - ArchWiki</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../ArchWikiOffline.css">
<meta name="ResourceLoaderDynamicStyles" content="">
<style></style>
<meta name="generator" content="MediaWiki 1.26.4">
<meta name="robots" content="noindex,follow">
<link rel="shortcut icon" href="/favicon.ico">
<link rel="search" type="application/opensearchdescription+xml" href="/opensearch_desc.php" title="ArchWiki (en)">
<link rel="EditURI" type="application/rsd+xml" href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/api.php?action=rsd">
<link rel="copyright" href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html">
<link rel="alternate" type="application/atom+xml" title="ArchWiki Atom feed" href="/index.php?title=Special:RecentChanges&amp;feed=atom">
</head>
<body class="mediawiki ltr sitedir-ltr ns-0 ns-subject page-DeveloperWiki_Internal_Projects skin-archlinux action-view">

		<div id="globalWrapper" style="width: 100%">
		<div id="column-content">
			<div id="content" class="mw-body" role="main" style="margin: 0.5em; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:0">
				<a id="top"></a>
				
				<div class="mw-indicators">
</div>
				<h1 id="firstHeading" class="firstHeading" lang="en">DeveloperWiki:Internal Projects</h1>
				
				<div id="bodyContent" class="mw-body-content">
					<div id="contentSub"></div>
										<div id="mw-content-text" lang="en" dir="ltr" class="mw-content-ltr">
<div class="noprint archwiki-template-message">
<p><a href="../File:Merge-arrows-2.png" class="image"><img alt="Merge-arrows-2.png" src="../File:Merge-arrows-2.png" width="48" height="48"></a><b>This article or section is a candidate for merging with <a href="../en/DeveloperWiki:Roll_Call.html" title="DeveloperWiki:Roll Call">DeveloperWiki:Roll Call</a>.</b><a href="../File:Merge-arrows-2.png" class="image"><img alt="Merge-arrows-2.png" src="../File:Merge-arrows-2.png" width="48" height="48"></a></p>
<div>
<b>Notes:</b> Outdated list (Discuss in <a rel="nofollow" class="external text" href="https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Talk:DeveloperWiki:Internal_Projects">Talk:DeveloperWiki:Internal Projects#</a>)</div>
</div>
<div id="toc" class="toc">
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Introduction"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Introduction</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2">
<a href="#Infrastructure_Projects"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Infrastructure Projects</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3">
<a href="#Developer_Tooling"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">Developer Tooling</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-4"><a href="#TODO_Items"><span class="tocnumber">2.1.1</span> <span class="toctext">TODO Items</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5">
<a href="#Mirror_Control"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">Mirror Control</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-6"><a href="#Automated_tests"><span class="tocnumber">2.2.1</span> <span class="toctext">Automated tests</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-7"><a href="#Packaging_Automation"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">Packaging Automation</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-8"><a href="#Server_Administration"><span class="tocnumber">2.4</span> <span class="toctext">Server Administration</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-9"><a href="#Developer_Communication_Team"><span class="tocnumber">2.5</span> <span class="toctext">Developer Communication Team</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-10">
<a href="#Packaging_Projects"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Packaging Projects</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-11"><a href="#Bug_Squashing"><span class="tocnumber">3.1</span> <span class="toctext">Bug Squashing</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-12"><a href="#Rebuild_Team"><span class="tocnumber">3.2</span> <span class="toctext">Rebuild Team</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-13"><a href="#Package_Review_Team"><span class="tocnumber">3.3</span> <span class="toctext">Package Review Team</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-14"><a href="#Orphan_Team"><span class="tocnumber">3.4</span> <span class="toctext">Orphan Team</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-15">
<a href="#Web_Projects"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Web Projects</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-16"><a href="#AUR"><span class="tocnumber">4.1</span> <span class="toctext">AUR</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-17"><a href="#BBS"><span class="tocnumber">4.2</span> <span class="toctext">BBS</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-18"><a href="#Flyspray_.28bugtracker.29"><span class="tocnumber">4.3</span> <span class="toctext">Flyspray (bugtracker)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-19"><a href="#Main_Site"><span class="tocnumber">4.4</span> <span class="toctext">Main Site</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-20"><a href="#Planet"><span class="tocnumber">4.5</span> <span class="toctext">Planet</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-21"><a href="#Wiki"><span class="tocnumber">4.6</span> <span class="toctext">Wiki</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-22">
<a href="#Coding_Projects"><span class="tocnumber">5</span> <span class="toctext">Coding Projects</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-23"><a href="#Arch_Linux_Init_Scripts"><span class="tocnumber">5.1</span> <span class="toctext">Arch Linux Init Scripts</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-24"><a href="#Arch_Linux_Release_Engineering_.28Installer.29"><span class="tocnumber">5.2</span> <span class="toctext">Arch Linux Release Engineering (Installer)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-25"><a href="#mkinitcpio"><span class="tocnumber">5.3</span> <span class="toctext">mkinitcpio</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-26"><a href="#namcap"><span class="tocnumber">5.4</span> <span class="toctext">namcap</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-27"><a href="#netctl"><span class="tocnumber">5.5</span> <span class="toctext">netctl</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-28"><a href="#srcpac"><span class="tocnumber">5.6</span> <span class="toctext">srcpac</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-29">
<a href="#Pacman"><span class="tocnumber">5.7</span> <span class="toctext">Pacman</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-30"><a href="#Development_Team"><span class="tocnumber">5.7.1</span> <span class="toctext">Development Team</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-31"><a href="#Translation_Team"><span class="tocnumber">5.7.2</span> <span class="toctext">Translation Team</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>

<h1><span class="mw-headline" id="Introduction">Introduction</span></h1>
<p>This article is part of the <a href="../en/DeveloperWiki.html" title="DeveloperWiki">DeveloperWiki</a>.
</p>
<p>This page is meant to list a lot of the projects Arch developers keep busy with. Yes, there are things to do outside of packaging. If you are interested in anything, this page should help you get in contact with the right people. If you are looking for something to do, this is always a good place to start.
</p>
<p>Some of these projects have dedicated discussion areas, such as the release engineering and pacman development mailing lists. Other ones are less formal- some of the communication may just be person to person emails or on the arch-dev lists if it appeals to a larger crowd. Remember that if you are interested in these less-formal projects, you should let the names listed below know so they will include you on any communication regarding the project.
</p>
<h1><span class="mw-headline" id="Infrastructure_Projects">Infrastructure Projects</span></h1>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Developer_Tooling">Developer Tooling</span></h2>
<p>Primarily developer-side tools (devtools, namcap) and server-side (db-scripts) work.
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Phrakture.html" title="User:Phrakture">Aaron Griffin</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Snowman.html" title="User:Snowman">Eric Bélanger</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Firmicus.html" title="User:Firmicus">François Charette</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Pierre.html" title="User:Pierre">Pierre Schmitz</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Hdoria&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Hdoria (page does not exist)">Hugo Doria</a>
</li>
</ul>
<p><br>
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="TODO_Items">TODO Items</span></h3>
<ul>
<li> dbscripts: Rewrite db-move to allow multiple packages, getting rid of the testing2* convienence scripts</li>
<li> dbscripts: Add community repo support to db-move to let us move packages from community to core/extra and vice versa.</li>
<li> dbscripts: Add community support to the sourceballs script - needs additional logic to use alternate SVN repos</li>
<li> dbscripts: When a package is completely removed from repo, e.g. amarok-base, its sourceball remains on the server. <b>I have a script for that. Will send it soon. <a href="../User:Snowman.html" title="User:Snowman">Snowman</a> 04:32, 6 October 2009 (EDT) </b>
</li>
<li> dbscripts/devtools: Add support for using different compression types for packages. This way we could migrate to xz compression while keeping the old gz compressed packages.</li>
<li> dbscripts/devtools: Implement a common storage dir for packages and just link from the repo dirs. This way mirrors wont need to download every package again when it is moved from testing to extra/core.</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Mirror_Control">Mirror Control</span></h2>
<p>Keep track of existing mirrors and ensure they are doing their job as good as possible (e.g. staying current). Ensure we have up to date contact information for as many mirrors as possible. Work on a tiered mirror system to relieve some stress from our primary rsync server.
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Romashka.html" title="User:Romashka">Roman Kyrylych</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Gerbra&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Gerbra (page does not exist)">Gerhard Brauer</a>
</li>
</ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Automated_tests">Automated tests</span></h3>
<ul>
<li> sync state: <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://users.archlinux.de/~gerbra/mirrorcheck.html">http://users.archlinux.de/~gerbra/mirrorcheck.html</a>
</li>
<li> additional performance tests: <a rel="nofollow" class="external free" href="http://www.archlinux.de/?page=MirrorStatus">http://www.archlinux.de/?page=MirrorStatus</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Gerbra&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Gerbra (page does not exist)">Gerhard Brauer</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Pierre.html" title="User:Pierre">Pierre Schmitz</a>
</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Packaging_Automation">Packaging Automation</span></h2>
<p>Automatic package generation based on changes in svn trunk. Errors should be reported to some mailing list, successful builds moved to a staging directory. Some guidelines of package moving into [extra]/[testing] should be created, for [core] we can use the current signoff procedure.  
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Pressh.html" title="User:Pressh">Ronald van Haren</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Ise&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Ise (page does not exist)">Daniel Isenmann</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Hdoria&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Hdoria (page does not exist)">Hugo Doria</a>
</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Server_Administration">Server Administration</span></h2>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Brain0.html" title="User:Brain0">Thomas Bächler</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Phrakture.html" title="User:Phrakture">Aaron Griffin</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:JGC&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:JGC (page does not exist)">Jan de Groot</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Toofishes.html" title="User:Toofishes">Dan McGee</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Pierre.html" title="User:Pierre">Pierre Schmitz</a>
</li>
<li> Loui Chang (sigurd)</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Developer_Communication_Team">Developer Communication Team</span></h2>
<p>This isn't quite infrastructure, but it almost belongs here. Responsible for organizing developer meetings and making sure people attempt to be present; you newer guys might have no idea, but we used to actually schedule and have 80% of the developer staff present in IRC for 1-2 hour meetings. Responsible for any other coordination between developers, TUs, and maybe even the front page news.
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Phrakture.html" title="User:Phrakture">Aaron Griffin</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Iphitus.html" title="User:Iphitus">James Rayner</a> -I can work on the Status Reports too if Aaron doesn't have time. I'll do dev meetings if nobody steps up.</li>
</ul>
<h1><span class="mw-headline" id="Packaging_Projects">Packaging Projects</span></h1>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Bug_Squashing">Bug Squashing</span></h2>
<p>Responsible for assigning bugs to package maintainers. If something is trivial and a fix can be easily made, then goes and does it. Organizes bug squashing days.
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Pjmattal&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Pjmattal (page does not exist)">Paul Mattal</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Romashka.html" title="User:Romashka">Roman Kyrylych</a>
</li>
<li> ...</li>
<li> (needs several people)</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Rebuild_Team">Rebuild Team</span></h2>
<p>Responsible for communicating and determining what rebuilds will cycle through [testing] and in what order. They are probably also the people doing large portions of the rebuilds.
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Allan.html" title="User:Allan">Allan McRae</a> (because my packages seem to cause big rebuilds...)</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Snowman.html" title="User:Snowman">Eric Bélanger</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Iphitus.html" title="User:Iphitus">James Rayner</a> - may be able to do some building for rebuilds if it's not near exams/assessment.</li>
<li> Andreas Radke - when OpenOffice is done all the rest is fun - quad core + tmpfs ftw :)</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Package_Review_Team">Package Review Team</span></h2>
<p>Some packages in our repos receive little attention due to not being updated frequently.  These need to be checked for being able to build (especially after major toolchain updates) and compliance with current packaging standards.  It would be good for packages that have not been rebuilt in a long time to be rebuilt to take advantage of new optimisations.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Orphan_Team">Orphan Team</span></h2>
<p>Responsible for caring for those packages that no one seems to want and are being neglected. This may involve adoption by themselves or finding a foster caregiver, moving them to a willing maintainer in [community], or sending them to the AUR (or the trash).
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Snowman.html" title="User:Snowman">Eric Bélanger</a> (for trivial upstream update)</li>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Giovanni&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Giovanni (page does not exist)">Giovanni Scafora</a>
</li>
</ul>
<h1><span class="mw-headline" id="Web_Projects">Web Projects</span></h1>
<p>This is meant to be a quick overview of the web projects we have and who works on them. For more technical details, you will want to check out the <a href="../en/DeveloperWiki:Gudrun_(web).html" title="DeveloperWiki:Gudrun (web)">DeveloperWiki:Gudrun (web)</a> and <a href="../en/Category:DeveloperWiki:Server_Configuration.html" title="Category:DeveloperWiki:Server Configuration">Category:DeveloperWiki:Server Configuration</a> pages.
</p>
<ul><li> <a href="../User:Pierre.html" title="User:Pierre">Pierre Schmitz</a>
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="AUR">AUR</span></h2>
<p>Responsible for coding and deploying the AUR.
</p>
<ul><li> Lukas Fleischer</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="BBS">BBS</span></h2>
<p>Responsible for keeping our BBS install up to date and secure.
</p>
<ul><li> <a href="../User:Pierre.html" title="User:Pierre">Pierre Schmitz</a>
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Flyspray_.28bugtracker.29">Flyspray (bugtracker)</span></h2>
<p>Responsible for keeping our flyspray install up to date and secure.
</p>
<ul><li> <a href="../User:Romashka.html" title="User:Romashka">Roman Kyrylych</a>
</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Main_Site">Main Site</span></h2>
<p>There are a lot of issues, things that need cleaned up, etc. Take a look at the bug tracker <a rel="nofollow" class="external text" href="https://bugs.archlinux.org/index.php?project=1&amp;cat%5B%5D=7&amp;status%5B%5D=open&amp;do=index">Web Site</a> category.
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Dusty&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Dusty (page does not exist)">Dusty Phillips</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Toofishes.html" title="User:Toofishes">Dan McGee</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Pjmattal&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Pjmattal (page does not exist)">Paul Mattal</a>
</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Planet">Planet</span></h2>
<p>Responsible for keeping the planet scripts updated and running.
</p>
<ul><li> Bartłomiej Piotrowski </li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Wiki">Wiki</span></h2>
<p>Responsible for keeping our wiki install up to date and secure.
</p>
<ul><li> <a href="../User:Pierre.html" title="User:Pierre">Pierre Schmitz</a>
</li></ul>
<h1><span class="mw-headline" id="Coding_Projects">Coding Projects</span></h1>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Arch_Linux_Init_Scripts">Arch Linux Init Scripts</span></h2>
<p>The all-important scripts that make your machine go when you turn it on
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Brain0.html" title="User:Brain0">Thomas Bächler</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Phrakture.html" title="User:Phrakture">Aaron Griffin</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Romashka.html" title="User:Romashka">Roman Kyrylych</a>
</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Arch_Linux_Release_Engineering_.28Installer.29">Arch Linux Release Engineering (Installer)</span></h2>
<p>The Arch Linux Install Framework (AIF) and official installation ISOs
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Dieter_be&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Dieter be (page does not exist)">Dieter Plaetinck</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Gerbra&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Gerbra (page does not exist)">Gerhard Brauer</a>
</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="mkinitcpio">mkinitcpio</span></h2>
<p>We have a program to create initrds for Arch systems.
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Brain0.html" title="User:Brain0">Thomas Bächler</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Phrakture.html" title="User:Phrakture">Aaron Griffin</a>
</li>
</ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="namcap">namcap</span></h2>
<p>Responsible for maintaining and adding features to namcap. 
</p>
<ul><li> Rémy Oudompheng </li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="netctl">netctl</span></h2>
<p>Network connection and profiles
</p>
<ul><li> Jouke Witteveen</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="srcpac">srcpac</span></h2>
<ul><li> Andrea Scarpino</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Pacman">Pacman</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Development_Team">Development Team</span></h3>
<p>This team is responsible for general development, including new features and bugfixes, for the package manager that is a core part of Arch. Although many people contribute patches and code, the people listed here are generally the people that will be reviewing patches and making the final say as to what gets in the codebase.
</p>
<ul>
<li> <a href="../User:Toofishes.html" title="User:Toofishes">Dan McGee</a>
</li>
<li> Xavier Chantry</li>
<li> Nagy Gabor</li>
<li> <a href="../User:Allan.html" title="User:Allan">Allan McRae</a> (focusing on makepkg)</li>
</ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Translation_Team">Translation Team</span></h3>
<p>Pacman, as of September 2009, has been translated to 15 languages. The upkeep and maintenance of these translations is pretty much a job in itself, with the times immediately preceding a release being the busiest. Ideally this team is responsible for creating a translations branch when a string freeze is set, and then takes incoming translations, ensures they are valid, and merges them into their branch. When a release is not imminent, their focus may be on improving clarity and usefulness of existing messages.
</p>
<ul><li> <a href="/index.php?title=User:Giovanni&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1" class="new" title="User:Giovanni (page does not exist)">Giovanni Scafora</a>
</li></ul>

</div>
<div id="catlinks" class="catlinks">
<div id="mw-normal-catlinks" class="mw-normal-catlinks">
<a href="../Special:Categories.html" title="Special:Categories">Category</a>: <ul><li><a href="../en/Category:DeveloperWiki.html" title="Category:DeveloperWiki">DeveloperWiki</a></li></ul>
</div>
<div id="mw-hidden-catlinks" class="mw-hidden-catlinks mw-hidden-cats-hidden">Hidden category: <ul><li><a href="../en/Category:Pages_or_sections_flagged_with_Template:Merge.html" title="Category:Pages or sections flagged with Template:Merge">Pages or sections flagged with Template:Merge</a></li></ul>
</div>
</div>					<div class="visualClear"></div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="visualClear"></div>
					<div id="footer" role="contentinfo">
Extracted from <a href="https://wiki.archlinux.org"> ArchWiki </a> and licensed under <a href="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html"> GDL >= 1.3</a>
		</div>
		</div>
		</body>
</html>
